Common Good Public License
Beta 1.0

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to limit an Original Work's
distribution. The Common Good Public License seeks to do the opposite by
securing an Original Work's wide spread distribution, modification, and use by
as many people as possible.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain duties and responsibilities for you when you use the
software, distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

The License has been inspired by and we acknowledge the work done by the
originators and supporters of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The
Natural Step (TNS), the Free Software Foundation, and people everywhere who
support and work for a sustainable and educated future.  It is our hope to bring
together these three positive elements for the common good and help create a
sustainable future of communication and technological development.


Terms and Conditions

A. Terms and Rights under a Grant of Copyright License. Provided that You meet
   all the conditions set forth for each of the following Rights, the Licensor
   hereby grants You a royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-sublicenseable,
   world-wide, perpetual license to the following Rights:

   0. Right to Own. You have the right to receive and own a copy of the Original
      Work provided that You meet all the conditions defined in Terms and
      Conditions, C. Conditions and Duties.

   1. Right to Copy. You have the right to create copies of the Original Work
      provided that You meet all the conditions defined in Terms and Conditions,
      C. Conditions and Duties.

   2. Right to Modify. You have the right to modify and create Derivative Works
      from the Original Work provided that You meet all the conditions defined
      in Terms and Conditions, C. Conditions and Duties.

   3. Right to Publish. You have the right to publish and distribute copies of
      the Original Work and Derivative Works in any media to the public provided
      that You meet all the conditions defined in Terms and Conditions,
      C. Conditions and Duties.

   4. Right to Review. You have the right to review, display or perform the
      Original Work publicly provided that You meet all the conditions defined
      in Terms and Conditions, C. Conditions and Duties.

B. Terms and Rights under a Grant of Patent License. Licensor hereby grants You
   a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual, non-sublicenseable
   license, under patent claims owned or controlled by the Licensor that are
   embodied in the Original Work as furnished by the Licensor ("Licensed
   Claims") to own, make, use, sell, offer for sale and review the Original
   Works and / or Derivative Works provided that You meet all the conditions
   defined in Terms and Conditions, C. Conditions and Duties.

C. Conditions and Duties. The following Conditions and Duties are generally
   listed and should be applied as required by each Right in section A. Terms
   and Rights under a Grant of Copyright License. and as generally required in
   section B. Terms and Rights under a Grant of Patent License.under Terms and
   Conditions:

   0.0. Duty to Share.

   0.1. Any and all Derivative Works made from Original Works licensed under
        this license must themselves be licensed under this license.

   0.2. You can combine the whole or any part of the Original Works and / or
        Derivative Works with Other Works licensed under different licenses so
        long as the different licenses are compatible with this License, the
        different licenses effectively grant no more and no less Rights than the
        Rights granted in this License under section A. Terms and Rights under a
        Grant of Copyright License without limitations on time or scope, and
        most importantly satisfy the condition directly below this one, part
        0.3. of this section 0.0. Duty to Share defined here in C. Conditions
        and Duties. To combine the whole or any part of the Original Works and /
        or Derivative Works with Other Works licensed under different licenses
        those licenses must have a provision requiring the distribution of the
        Source Data along with the Original Work and / or Derivative Work
        licensed under these other licenses. If such additional licenses are
        used on some parts of an Original Work and / or Derivative Work then any
        part of an Original Work and / or Derivative Work licensed under this
        license shall remain so and may not be licensed under any other license
        except by the copyright holder for a given part.

   0.3. You hereby agree to provide a usable copy of the Source Data of the
        Original Work and / or Derivative Work along with each copy of the
        Original Work that You distribute if the Original Work and / or
        Derivative Work itself is not already Source Data. You reserve the right
        to satisfy this obligation by placing a usable copy of the Source Data
        in an information repository reasonably calculated to permit inexpensive
        and convenient access by licensees for as long as You continue to
        distribute the Original Work and / or Derivative Work, and by publishing
        the address of that information repository in a notice immediately
        following the copyright notice that applies to the Original Work and /
        or Derivative Work.

   0.4. You must cause any Derivative Work to carry prominent notices stating
        that You made modifications and the date of any change.

   0.5. You must cause the whole or any part of the Original Work and / or
        Derivative Work that you distribute or publish to be licensed as a whole
        at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

   0.6. You must conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
        appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all
        the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
        warranty; and give any other recipients of the Original Work and / or
        Derivative Work a copy of this License along with any Original Works and
        / or Derivative Works.

   1.0. Duty to Environment. By your ownership, distribution, modification, and
        review of this Original Work and / or Derivative Work:

   1.1. You do not prevent the reduction of Nature's functions and diversity
        being systematically subject to increasing concentrations of materials
        and substances extracted from the earth.

   1.2. You do not prevent the reduction of Nature's functions and diversity
        being systematically subject to increasing concentrations of materials
        and substances produced by society.

   1.3. You do not prevent the reduction of Nature's functions and diversity
        being systematically impoverished by physical displacement, over
        harvesting, or other forms of ecosystem manipulation.

   1.4. You do not prevent the reduction of Nature's functions and diversity
        being systematically impoverished due to the unfair and inefficient use
        of resources in order to meet human needs globally.

   2.0 Duty to Humanity. By your ownership, distribution, modification, and
       review You do not violate the UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
       adopted and proclaimed by the UN General Assembly Resolution 217 A
       (http://www.un.org/Overview/rights.html), see Appendix [1] which is
       hereby considered part of the Terms and Conditions of this License.

D. External Deployment. The term "External Deployment" means the use or
   distribution of the Original Work or Derivative Works in any way such that
   the Original Work or Derivative Works may be used by anyone other than You,
   whether the Original Work or Derivative Works are distributed to those
   persons or made available as an application intended for use over a computer
   network. As an express condition for the grants of license hereunder, You
   agree that any External Deployment by You of a Derivative Work shall be
   deemed a distribution and shall be licensed to all under the terms of this
   License.

E. Attribution Rights. You must retain, in the Source Code of any Derivative
   Works that You create, all copyright, patent or trademark notices from the
   Source Code of the Original Work, as well as any notices of licensing and any
   descriptive text identified therein as an "Attribution Notice." You must
   cause the Source Code for any Derivative Works that You create to carry a
   prominent Attribution Notice reasonably calculated to inform recipients that
   You have modified the Original Work.

F. Exclusions From License Grant. Nothing in this License shall be deemed to
   grant any rights to trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or any
   other intellectual property of Licensor except as expressly stated herein. No
   patent license is granted to make, use, sell or offer to sell embodiments of
   any patent claims other than the Licensed Claims defined in section B.Terms
   and Rights under a Grant of Patent License. No right is granted to the
   trademarks of Licensor even if such marks are included in the Original
   Work. Nothing in this License shall be interpreted to prohibit the Licensor
   from licensing under different terms from this License any Original Work that
   the Licensor otherwise would have a right to license.

G. Forward Compatible License. CGPL.org may publish revised and/or new versions
   of the CGPL from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to
   the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or
   concerns. Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the
   Program specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
   "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
   conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the
   CGPL.org. If the Program does not specify a version number of this License,
   you may choose any version ever published by CGPL.org.

H. Acceptance and Termination. If You distribute copies of the Original Work or
   a Derivative Work, You must make a reasonable effort under the circumstances
   to obtain the express and volitional assent of recipients to the terms of
   this License. Nothing else but this License (or another written agreement
   between Licensor and You) grants You permission to create Derivative Works
   based upon the Original Work or to exercise any of the rights granted in
   sections A. Terms and Rights under a Grant of Copyright License and B. Terms
   and Rights under a Grant of Patent License herein, and any attempt to do so
   except under the terms of this License (or another written agreement between
   Licensor and You) is expressly prohibited by U.S. copyright law, the
   equivalent laws of other countries, and by international treaty. Therefore,
   by exercising any of the rights granted to You in sections A and B herein,
   You indicate Your acceptance of this License and all of its Terms and
   Conditions. This License shall terminate immediately and you may no longer
   exercise any of the rights granted to You by this License upon Your failure
   to honor the provision in section C. Conditions and Duties herein.

   You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
   expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
   sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically
   terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received
   copies, or rights, from You under this License will not have their licenses
   terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
   it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
   Program or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you
   do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the
   Program (or any work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of
   this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
   distributing or modifying the Program or works based on it.

I. Mutual Termination for Patent Action. This License shall terminate
   automatically and You may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to You
   by this License if You file a lawsuit in any court alleging that any CGPL
   licensed Original Work infringes any patent claims that are essential to own,
   use, copy, modify, publish, or reviewthat Original Work.

   If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
   or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are
   imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
   contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
   conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
   simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
   obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at
   all. For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free
   redistribution of an Original Work by all those who receive copies directly
   or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and
   this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of an Original
   Work.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
   particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and
   the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
   or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims;
   this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free
   software distribution system, which is implemented by public license
   practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of
   software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent
   application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or
   she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee
   cannot impose that choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
   consequence of the rest of this License.

J. Jurisdiction, Venue and Governing Law. Any action or suit relating to this
   License may be brought only in the courts of a jurisdiction wherein the
   Licensor resides or in which Licensor conducts its primary business, and
   under the laws of that jurisdiction excluding its conflict-of-law
   provisions. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for
   the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any use of the
   Original Work outside the scope of this License or after its termination
   shall be subject to the requirements and penalties of the U.S. Copyright Act,
   17 U.S.C. § 101 et seq., the equivalent laws of other countries, and
   international treaty. This section shall survive the termination of this
   License.

K. Attorneys Fees. In any action to enforce the terms of this License or seeking
   damages relating thereto, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover
   its costs and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys'
   fees and costs incurred in connection with such action, including any appeal
   of such action. This section shall survive the termination of this License

L. Warranty and Disclaimer of Warranty. Licensor warrants that the copyright in
   and to the Original Work is owned by the Licensor or that the Original Work
   is distributed by Licensor under a valid current license from the copyright
   owner. Except as expressly stated in the immediately proceeding sentence, the
   Original Work is provided under this License on an "AS IS" BASIS and WITHOUT
   WARRANTY, either express or implied, including, without limitation, the
   warranties of NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
   PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL WORK IS WITH
   YOU. This DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY constitutes an essential part of this
   License. No license to Original Work is granted here under except under this
   disclaimer.

   BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
   PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
   STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
   PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
   PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
   YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

M. Limitation of Liability. Under no circumstances and under no legal theory,
   whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, shall the
   Licensor be liable to any person for any direct, indirect, special,
   incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of
   this License or the use of the Original Work including, without limitation,
   damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction,
   or any and all other commercial damages or losses. This limitation of
   liability shall not apply to liability for death or personal injury resulting
   from Licensor's negligence to the extent applicable law prohibits such
   limitation. Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of
   incidental or consequential damages, so this exclusion and limitation may not
   apply to You.

   IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
   ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
   THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
   GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
   OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR
   DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR
   A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH
   HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

N. Miscellaneous. This License represents the complete agreement concerning the
   subject matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be
   unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary

Appendix [1]
Univeral Declaration of Human Rights and Conditions
Adopted and proclaimed by General Assembly resolution 217 A (III) of 10 December
1948 On December 10, 1948 the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and
proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the full text of which
appears in the following pages. Following this historic act the Assembly called
upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration and "to cause
it to be disseminated, displayed, read and expounded principally in schools and
other educational institutions, without distinction based on the political
status of countries or territories."

PREAMBLE

Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable
rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice
and peace in the world,

Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts
which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in
which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from
fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common
people,

Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a
last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights
should be protected by the rule of law,

Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between
nations,

Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their
faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person
and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,


Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with
the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of
human rights and fundamental freedoms, Whereas a common understanding of these
rights and freedoms is of the greatest importance for the full realization of
this pledge,

Now, Therefore THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY proclaims THIS UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF
HUMAN RIGHTS as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all
nations, to the end that every individual and every organ of society, keeping
this Declaration constantly in mind, shall strive by teaching and education to
promote respect for these rights and freedoms and by progressive measures,
national and international, to secure their universal and effective recognition
and observance, both among the peoples of Member States themselves and among the
peoples of territories under their jurisdiction.

ARTICLE 1. All human beings are born free and equal inq dignity and rights. They
           are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one
           another in a spirit of brotherhood.

ARTICLE 2. Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this
           Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour,
           sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or
           social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no
           distinction shall be made on the basis of the political,
           jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to
           which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust,
           non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.

ARTICLE 4. No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave
           trade shall be prohibited in all their forms.

ARTICLE 5. No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or
           degrading treatment or punishment.

ARTICLE 6. Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before
           the law.

ARTICLE 7. All are equal before the law and are entitled without any
           discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to
           equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this
           Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.

ARTICLE 8. Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent
           national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted
           him by the constitution or by law.

ARTICLE 9. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.

ARTICLE 10. Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing
            by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of
            his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.

ARTICLE 11. (1) Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be
                presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a
                public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary
                for his defence.

            (2) No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of
                any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence,
                under national or international law, at the time when it was
                committed. Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one
                that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.

ARTICLE 12. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his
            privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his
            honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of
            the law against such interference or attacks.

ARTICLE 13. (1) Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence
                within the borders of each state.

            (2) Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own,
                and to return to his country.

ARTICLE 14. (1) Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries
                asylum from persecution.

            (2) This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions
                genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts
                contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

ARTICLE 15. (1) Everyone has the right to a nationality.

            (2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor
                denied the right to change his nationality.

ARTICLE 16. (1) Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race,
                nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a
                family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during
                marriage and at its dissolution.

            (2) Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full
                consent of the intending spouses.

            (3) The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society
                and is entitled to protection by society and the State.

ARTICLE 17. (1) Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in
                association with others.

            (2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.

ARTICLE 18. Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and
            religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or
            belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in
            public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching,
            practice, worship and observance.

ARTICLE 19. Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this
            right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to
            seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and
            regardless of frontiers.

ARTICLE 20. (1) Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and
                association.

            (2) No one may be compelled to belong to an association.

ARTICLE 21. (1) Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his
                country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.

            (2) Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his
                country.

            (3) The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of
                government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine
                elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and
                shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting
                procedures.

ARTICLE 22. Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security
            and is entitled to realization, through national effort and
            international co-operation and in accordance with the organization
            and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural
            rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his
            personality.

ARTICLE 23. (1) Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to
                just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against
                unemployment.

            (2) Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay
                for equal work.

            (3) Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable
                remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence
                worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by
                other means of social protection.

            (4) Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the
                protection of his interests.

ARTICLE 24. Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable
            limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.

ARTICLE 25. (1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the
                health and well-being of himself and of his family, including
                food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social
                services, and the right to security in the event of
                unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other
                lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.

            (2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and
                assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock,
                shall enjoy the same social protection.

ARTICLE 26. (1) Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at
                least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary
                education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional
                education shall be made generally available and higher education
                shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.

            (2) Education shall be directed to the full development of the human
                personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights
                and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding,
                tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious
                groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations
                for the maintenance of peace.

            (3) Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that
                shall be given to their children.

ARTICLE 27. (1) Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural
                life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in
                scientific advancement and its benefits.

            (2) Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and
                material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or
                artistic production of which he is the author.

ARTICLE 28. Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which
            the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully
            realized.

ARTICLE 29. (1) Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and
                full development of his personality is possible.

            (2) In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be
                subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely
                for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the
                rights and freedoms of others and of meeting the just
                requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare
                in a democratic society.

            (3) These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary
                to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

ARTICLE 30. Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any
            State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to
            perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and
            freedoms set forth herein.
